in the year 2022  we're talking about the phenomenon of a  song of ice and fire  george r martin's corpus of written work  as a whole in three very separate  categories one of which  may remain open-ended for centuries to  come okay  one category  is the book  as it was first planned  and first written okay so version one  of  a song of ice and fire again  this is not lost without a trace to some  extent version one of the story that  george was writing it is still  implicit in inheriting the text of  a game of thrones you could argue the  first couple of books first couple short  stories uh connected to the same  universe also right and these vestiges  of the earlier plan the earlier version  of what the book was supposed to be and  we have a lot of documentary evidence  of earlier drafts that have leaked the  initial proposal that he sent to the  publishers outlining what the books were  going to be when it was planned to be  just a trilogy a much shorter series of  books  much more concise storyline okay so  this is one  category  another category is the commercialized  adaptation  of a game of thrones  of the new spin-off  hbo was promoting in the year 2022  of perhaps many more spin-offs to come  many of you are aware of the kind of  legal details of the the deal with the  devil frankly george r martin made with  hbo that's why he was in no position to  negotiate no position to change anything  as the first tv adaptation progressively  got worse and worse and worse over a  period of at least eight years i think  it was more like nine years if you  measure it month to month beginning to  if you go from the pilot episode to that  terrible conclusion of the final season  of the tv show so it's a long time  and if he had a different deal with a  different uh filmmaking outfit whatever  you want to say you know if it had been  adapted for cinema  some other situation with some other  network broadcaster or what have you  possibly he could have changed the  showrunners could have changed the  director could have negotiated a new  direction at some point well that was  not his situation at all and it is not a  situation at all now and it's not going  to be a situation in the future and that  that goes on and on and then the third  category  is the question of what remains to be  written what remains to be disclosed in  the books themselves  i don't want to estimate the body weight  of george rr martin  i don't want to estimate  the state of his  circulatory system his cardiovascular  health  it is  a very real possibility that we will  never see the conclusion in writing of  his books that we will be left  for centuries to come to wonder what the  books would have been should have been  could have been if he had  finished writing all right  and obviously right now  last few days of 2021 and as the year  2022 unfolds obviously that is an area  of speculation and these three things  are linked right our appreciation of the  books as they exist and of the  conclusion of the books that's yet to be  written or yet to be revealed yet to be  published all right our understanding of  that is inextricable from our  understanding and analysis of the pop  culture phenomenon of the adaptation and  exploitation of it by  hbo corporation making up television  shows television shows video games  collectible figurines uh board games  trading cards i think you know i know  they're interwoven each is  interlinked with the other you think you  think george himself isn't influenced by  it he is it's not just the audience it's  impossible you know i don't know if  you've seen it there's film footage of  george he has his own  collection of the figurines holding up  the figurines based on the characters in  his show and he's aware of the  differences between the different  versions of them and so on you know  he's wrapped up in it in it too  and yeah  both of those categories are  understanding and analysis of them it's  inextricably indissolubly linked to the  notion originally of what the books were  supposed to be version zero draft zero  as i say it's still there in game of  thrones the first volume of the text and  it's still there in the proposal that  was sent to the uh sent to the publisher  so on and so forth  um  okay  so what is  the political philosophy of  george rr martin  and i'm not going to ask you why does it  matter i'm going to assert that if there  weren't a political philosophy at the  center of this  cultural phenomenon it would be of no  interest at all it would be no of no  significance at all now you know um  george r martin has  written many short stories and novels  outside of  uh the game of thrones universe  some  some  consist of george rr martin reflecting  on and regretting the breakup of his  first marriage  there's nothing wrong with that it's a  perfectly meaningful  form of literature and i'm sure some  people  really care about those stories he wrote  some of them seem to be him reflecting  on how awful it is to be  you know a 400 pound  creepy man like really there's there's  some that are kind of talking about his  obesity and his frankly his body image  issues there's nothing wrong with that  you can write a story you know you can  write a story about what it's like to be  you know uh silver white and so forth  all right  the stories he wrote the books he  created  that had no political philosophy within  them all right i've got to tell you  something they are never going to matter  in the history of the world the way a  songwriting fire games of their own game  of thrones etc the way this phenomenon  already has mattered and i believe the  way it will continue to matter it could  matter much more in the future now i  said this in a video a little over two  years ago but just say it again if you  think the political ideas in game of  thrones are slightly provocative  slightly interesting from a western  democratic perspective how do you think  they translate into arabic it is  translated there back it is being read  in arabic it is the movies and tv shows  etc the video games they're all being  seen in the arabic speaking world you  know how do you think this translates  into chinese what are the impacts for  chinese culture civilization the the  meditation on the past present future of  democracy and of feudalism and of  dictatorship and all all of these themes  so yeah it matters it already has  mattered for for  more than ten years  it's reasonable to suppose it's going to  matter more in future  and  let me ask you to reflect  if there were no political philosophy in  the books of the tv show the song of ice  and fire phenomena if it were just  a series of romances  if this were just about the question  of who  jamie lannister is going to fall in love  with next will jamie lannister you know  end up happily ever after you know if  george r martin were writing a kind of  gene austin  romantic literature here would any of  you care you know  and again you may not  consciously think you chose these books  you care about these books or you chose  the tv show or care about the tv show  for expressly political reasons but i'm  i'm making the assertion here that the  reason why  this is so much more interesting and so  much more significant than 10 000 other  movies that featured dragons  and knights riding on horseback i mean  do you want to look at the list i mean  look at the you know the the the  recycling of these tropes you know most  most of them go back to actually french  and german uh fables for children some  some of it yes fine king arthur some of  it goes back to english tradition but  actually i think this stuff is more  french and german than people want to  admit it is themselves but any case kind  of western european  uh fables about the the dark ages for a  better term you know okay  even now so here we are 2022. do you  really care what happens next in jamie  lannister's sex life look  i have some curiosity i admit but that's  not for me what makes it compelling what  makes me uh look forward to it i don't  think in the long term uh reflecting on  it that's that's what's going to matter  why  uh this cultural phenomenon matters so  much now  george rr martin's  political  and religious philosophy  has been consistent for decades  he has been fascinated  by the idea  that human beings could achieve  immortality  through what is called in science  fiction meeting a hive mind  if you don't know the term hive mind  what does it mean why does it matter  well the idea that somehow  the open-ended process of evolution  might result in some species somewhere  if not on planet earth on some other  planet some species gaining the ability  to pool together the memories and  experiences of all the members of that  species and in this way by depositing  your consciousness by downloading your  consciousness uh into this so-called  high mind into this shared consciousness  you know that we would achieve  immortality now  let's just pause and reflect  does that sound  like an interesting idea to you because  it really doesn't to me  it's it's really not very interesting oh  hey you know there's this alien planet  where the whole species they eat with  separate mouths but then they digest and  poo with the same  stomach organ  like wouldn't that be a fascinating idea  a species where the esophaguses of all  the species somehow mystically merged  together so that when one member of the  species eats they always that's really  not interesting to me  at all  um i do think of the brain as a  biological organ in your body i i think  that you know  consciousness in the absence of a brain  is just as ridiculous as talking about  you know digestion in the absence of  entrails you know what is digestion  digestion isn't one thing there's a  whole bunch of chemicals and conditions  and structures coming together and  working in a kind of  synergy you know  yeah there's stomach acid involved and  there's the long intestine and the small  intestine yeah you put it all together  and that's the process of digestion well  yeah you put all this stuff together  and you have the the process of  mentation and it's not so different for  a monkey and it's not so different for a  dolphin it's not so different for a cow  you know i mean it's not you know  but the idea that this can be  merged and that that would be  tremendously meaningful or  matter  i think that's a very shallow very silly  childlike delusion now i'm going to talk  in a minute about the george r martin's  work outside of song whisperer  uh  stories like a song for leah and so on  um  the original plan  version one or version zero of a song by  fire game of thrones if you're aware of  this recurring theme that george martin  has written about four decades prior to  and leading up to uh game house the  original plan can be summarized very  simply and it was it was a much simpler  work with three volumes it was a simpler  storyline  okay there is a magical boy born with  innate superpowers um in a in a castle  right  and he goes on a mystical visionary  quest  to discover or rediscover  that uh his ancient ancestors or some of  them had this better way of life because  they had a hive mind right then this  hive mind thing has come up in slightly  different forms in one george r martin  story after another one novel afternoon  so it's not that surprising he goes up  to the far north beyond the wall yes in  the context of this war  blah blah blah a civil war i suppose you  could say that's going on but he and his  mother originally it was the the injured  boy and his mother escaped north of the  wall very closely parallel to the  structure of the the dune novels where  the mother and son escape out into the  desert and then he goes on a magical  mystical vision quest then discovers his  superpowers and discovers that he's the  messiah-like anointed magical leader of  the  next phase of a civilization so  the the first book there are actually  many many palpable uh  borrowings from dune  oh how else to put it um including you  know throughout the books you can find  specific sentences specific lines of  text that are  quoting or cribbing from doing so dune  was a significant influence on  georgetown right but  whereas in dune  the spiritual discovery  is a hallucinogenic  drug you know spice as it's called that  and that spice connects to i mean is it  even worth summarizing the spiritual  spirituality and supernatural elements  of of dune but you know um the author of  dune was interested in the idea that  like our our genetic code carries the  memories of events from many centuries  earlier that you can you can remember  things from the different distant past  again to what extent this is mystical or  biological so you had a different set of  thematic fascinations that by the way  connected to a very uh different set of  uh uh  various different set of political uh  tropes and concerns t-man in the  audience says ha i was going to say that  game of thrones is the dune of the  fantasy world yeah yeah yeah yeah well  there's a real cause and effect uh  relationship between them and anyway  sorry  i i could i could digress here  you know you may or may not know this  t-man but george rr martin wrote one  particular short story that very much  influenced  the third star wars movie it influenced  the the planet of the ewoks  and also the initial invention of  chewbacca so  the original plan for the star wars  movies was that they would travel to  chewbacca's homeworld sorry it's the the  planet of the wookies whatever the hell  it's called  maybe wookie stan  [Laughter]  um  you know and uh  the tropes from this one particular  story by george r martin seven times  never kill man that was what that was  adapted from including there were  several particular illustrations of the  furry characters with carrying guns and  a gun belt over the shoulder there they  are exactly what chewbacca was based on  now i assume it's because people got  tired of hearing the moaning noise  chewbacca made and if you haven't seen  the star wars christmas special you are  missing out geez that's that's a whole  crowded room full of chewbacca-like  characters you know wookies remember to  be all moaning at each other well yeah  believe it or not all of that that whole  bundle so so anyway the plan was adapted  and instead they go to this other planet  called endor which is covered by the  ewoks not by the wookiee  but believe it or not this whole thing  uh is derivative of a particular story  by  george rr martin so you know that  intersected with his life i mean having  your ideas  uh  influence a massive cultural event like  the star wars the initial star wars  trilogy or something  i just say someone like george r martin  had many different opportunities to  develop a different fascination or a  different direction  it is interesting that as an old man  i'm sorry has no offense but you know he  wasn't as a young man that he got into  writing these works that are really  based on dune it's as an old man that  he's going back to dune you know book  that had been famous and influential in  his youth  so he uh i would presume that in the  years leading up to or maybe the months  leading up to writing the first game of  thrones book he went back and reread  doom that he looked at it again for one  way or another got inspired about it  again because i wouldn't say if you look  at his career as a whole if you look at  what he wrote before game of thrones  nobody would say that he was derivative  of dune like in general over his whole  career but definitely um game of thrones  and the the beginning of the song of ice  and fire phenomenon it is very very  directly a derivative of it inspired by  dune  the dune books not the dune uh movies i  should say  okay um  so  version 0 of the text which is to some  extent still extant in the text to some  extent we know it from the proposal to  the publishing company etc  the outline of what the text is going to  be  this was a story  of a boy who discovers or rediscovers  that there was this ancient prehistoric  culture that had a magical hive mind had  the ability to magically merge together  people's consciousness so they share  each other's thoughts  and that this provided people with a  real and palpable form of immortality  there was a sense in which you would  never die  because your memories would be shared by  other people your experiences we share  with other people as opposed to  disappearing so this fantasy  appears in george rr martin's writing  again and again and again and very often  as in the story a song for leah the song  for leah is the most narrowly focused on  just this one issue if you don't find  this one fantasy interesting you'll find  that story completely boring because  that's all it's about a song for leah is  holding up this idea of a biologically  real immortality achieved through a  science fiction hive mind achieved  through sharing consciousness etc it's  holding it up and contrasting it to  um  the promises made by religion in the  real world religion like catholicism or  religion like islam that they just tell  you to pray and you're going to have  immortality after you after you die uh  you know i could say a few other things  i guess it might be interesting to note  that a song for leah  talks about other types of happiness  that come from this hive mind  joint consciousness experience that  interestingly game of thrones does not  game of thrones is a song for us of song  of fire etc um  it very much deals with  sex  it deals with isolation and loneliness  it deals with happiness sensuality  like kind of what is the meaning of  happiness and then once you know this  mystical happiness of being merged into  you know the conjoined memories and  experiences of others of what  significance is your own evidence now  admittedly it's just at the end of the  extant books as we have them the books  that have already been published as of  this date in december 2021 at the at the  very end of this uh  the text we have to to work from  um  bran  he is already becoming acclimatized to  the hive mind but it doesn't satisfy him  in this way this is a big contrast to a  song for leah and i think again we could  talk about many of the other books  including uh seven times never kill man  sometimes never call man it's a  meditation on the same issues from a  different angle  um  you could make a list of the books and  short stories of george r barnes and ask  yourself which ones do and which ones  don't deal with the high fight  many many many of the science fiction  stories that involve this one way or  another sometimes even if it's just  negatively so if it's just talking about  for example the problem of  overpopulation and selfishness  because of the absence of a hive mind is  things to deal with from different uh  different perspectives  uh anyway i know we don't have that many  chapters showing you brand's perspective  on the world after he's been merged into  this uh  business of shared memories and this  kind of immortality that's been offered  him but he's not happy it's not as  though bran's perspective is that oh now  he would never want to go back to the  real world that he would never want to  walk on two feet again that he would  never want to just be selfishly  interested in his own sex life or having  his own children or  on the contrary we see a very frustrated  and this is also contrasting the book  and the tv show tv show to deal with any  of this stuff we see a frustrated and  miserable crippled boy who still very  much wishes he could be a knight and  wishes he could uh  have sex or have a romance or love  affair with someone he very much still  wants all the things that a that a  normal uh individual human being wants  and it seems that having access to the  memories of a thousand years or what  have you uh being able to see the world  with a thousand eyes and one as the book  repeatedly gives us this phrase that no  this actually doesn't satisfy him in any  way whatsoever i it doesn't have this um  euphoric or overwhelming or you know  life life altering or life ending  significance that it does in a song for  leah now why am i taking the time to say  this well remember one part of what  we're discussing or analyzing here are  books and stories that have not yet been  written and they may never be written  um  i would encourage george rr martin to  get on a vegan diet immediately and  lower his chances of having a heart  attack by about 70 percent  but george r martin may never live long  enough to to conclude this tale it is  certainly possible based on the text as  we now have it that unlike the story of  song for leah that bran will rebel  against the hive mind that he will rebel  against and discard um this idea of the  the collocation of memories shall i say  of people's memories being worshipped  it's possible he will decide that no  what's really worth living in life is  life as an individual that's possible if  so  it's a remarkable contrast to what every  other story george r martin has ever  written has to say about this matter um  it is not an exaggeration to say that a  large part of his perspective on  religion  is that what religion is offering  humanity is the  tempting  intoxicating promise of a hive mind and  of immortality of exactly this kind  that it never can deliver on that this  is some kind of fundamental yearning we  have as human beings perhaps because our  own evolution our own biology is leading  toward that conclusion  millions of years in the future you know  or on some other planet or what have you  that that's the kind of end point we we  want the the  teleological goal we uh we want to work  towards biologically sentimentally or  however we want to put it uh that this  is the fundamental human yearning and  then to achieve that  is  you know kind of  totally and ultimately uh satisfying now  i'm describing this so far in a somewhat  flattering way i've already let you guys  know i think it's complete nonsense i  mean i know more wants to  uh mentate your memories than i want to  digest your food you know what i mean i  don't want to excrete what you eat it  doesn't make sense to me the idea of  merging the function of the of one brain  with another is not any more mysterious  or inspirational or interesting to me  the idea of merging one stomach with  with another i'm i'm i'm a nihilist in  this context i'm a kind of biological  nihilist and i i would say further um  look at the monkeys of the forest you  know creatures that are not so different  look at the look at the uh  you know look at the squawking penguins  of antarctica do you think oh  how much better their lives would be if  all of them could squawk in unison if  each penguin could access the memory of  a thousand years of what a thousand  other penguins had done um instead of  living in this this terrible state of  isolation no  whatever is meaningful in the life of a  penguin is irreducibly and ineluctably  and uniquely individual this is my  experience whether i'm a monkey in the  jungle or a penguin on a sheet of ice in  antarctica and  i wouldn't even suppose that any one  penguin would be particularly interested  in the memories of other penguins from a  thousand years earlier yeah yeah well  that's that's what those guys did with  their lives but when i'm interested in  what i'm consumed with is what i do with  mine you know whether my experience  hunting fish or my experience laying an  egg or finding a maid all the things  that penguins you know uh consumes  within their incredibly limited  intellectual capacity but you know  why would your ideal be of a perfectly  harmonious hive-minded penguin society  where they all quack in unison instead  of all quite each quacking at the other  what's you know what's the point i think  this is a really stupid and childish  misinterpretation not just of human  nature but of but of nature with a  capital letter n and again you know  whatever joy and misery there is in  being a monkey whatever may be  meaningful in the the life of a monkey  which i will readily admit is largely  meaningless  um still this you know this can't be  separated from the individuality of the  monkey and his his memories serve his  purpose as my memories serve mine my  memories are tools for me to make use of  and i i just i totally reject this  notion that somehow by  sharing the tool we'd be transforming uh  you know  transforming our lives or the meaning of  them or what is to be done you know and  again even this you know um  all of you had grandparents not all of  you knew your grandparents how  interested were you in your grandparents  experiences how much time did you spend  asking your grandparents about their  memories in their lives do you even care  now  do you want to after this livestream is  over call your grandmother up and say  hey share with me your memories and  experiences you know  most of us  don't care  and you know what did your grandparents  do with their life well they sure sat  around playing cards a lot the memories  of so many hands of poker of so many  games of pinochle you know  i'm sorry but you know i think there  what it is george r martin is is  choosing to romanticize i think is is  kind of tragically misguided now you  guys may remember it's another real uh  science fiction uh  um science fiction source material that  may have haunted you for the rest of  your life  there is a moment  in the original blade runner film toward  the end  where  the antagonist is going to die  and he regrets  the first time i saw it it was  tremendously emotionally moving to me i  forget if i was 11 years old or 16 years  old i was a much younger man i was a  child or what have you um but you know  this so the villain the antagonist is  dying  and he he says the words he is  regretting he's reflecting that all of  his memories the memories of all these  amazing things he has done they will now  dissolve and disappear forever  like tears in the rain you know like you  know tear drops joining the rain that  runs down his face they'll disappear  forever and yes that can seem very  moving uh when my own father died i  remember just kind of reflecting how  remarkable it was because my father was  an expert in a number of kind of  technical fields he knew a lot about how  to set up the lighting in art galleries  for example he worked in art galleries  wow there was this whole you know it was  kind of a century worth of expertise you  know an experience  within this technical field that was  accessible the day before yesterday and  now is irretrievably lost forever you  know now you know just a few days ago  you could have asked this guy a question  within this you know the history of  museums and how to how to plan and build  museums that was this is their expertise  and he could have instantly and  effortlessly told you the answer and  today at no price someone knows you know  i understand there's this sentimental  sense of of what is lost  but you know for myself as a mature  adult i want to completely  unsentimentally you know assert to you  that no you know thoughts in your head  you know they exist in space just like a  discarded can of coke on the sidewalk  you know like these are things they come  and go you make use of them and when  you're dead they're gone and they're of  no use to you and they're of no use to  anyone else anymore  and you know you may cherish your  memories but i think even that is a  mistake i think it's a mistake george rr  martin in his private life is guilty of  just based on his writing based on his  his sentimentality you know as i know it  if you want to be understood if you want  your memories and experiences to matter  to someone else you have to put in the  level of effort  equal to creating a work of art now  some of you if you have a grandfather  who lived through world war ii  you are probably not that interested in  hearing him say  casually and drunken drunkenly  uh meander through a bunch of  reflections about what happened in world  war two you may have had this experience  ask your grandfather hey what did you do  in world war ii and you just get a bunch  of sneering aimless  sarcastic remarks and reflections okay  so that's that's memory  i mean  your grandfather would have to put an  effort even if it's not recorded and  it's not written for a book he would  have to put in the effort to gather his  thoughts and organize them and present  you with a kind of work of art it could  be a podcast it could be a youtube video  obviously he could write a memoir he  could write a book or something but that  actually if we want other people to  understand our memories if we want them  to be able to make use of our memories  if we want them to uh if we want to even  be interested or curious about our  memories that requires art  and what's significant in life is not  actually sharing your memories or  showing your consciousness or having a  high bond what's significant is sharing  works of art and well that's actually  the production and work and labor and to  understand how unnatural that is that  that's not something biological you know  this is something contrary to and  outside of uh nature evolution and all  of the science fiction and religious  tropes that he that he brings into it  um  so  uh niles uh venstrum says uh homie make  deep dive videos on a song of ice and  fire release your perspective on it um  it's it's new to us well if you check  the playlist niles you may already know  but i think this is gonna be the 24th  video in that in that playlist uh so you  already have many many hours to listen  to of me talking about game of thrones  but you know a really sort of saddening  question to think about is how much am i  going to care when the next book finally  comes out  five years ago i would have been so  thrilled to see a new game of thrones  book i would have been so thrilled to  even have a new tv show or film  adaptation  but today  you know  today all of our expectations have been  very much all of our expectations have  been very much dimmed and diminished so  someone in the audience knew the name of  chewbacca's homeworld  so it was not in fact wookiestan it was  not waconia  it was not the republic of wook  trade market now republic of look come  on  the wook republic you know  [Laughter]  so yeah t-man comments quote i've always  thought of the hive mind as an a  religious philosophy a christian  wonder if that's a typo if you mean that  so he said an irreligious philosophy  christian writers like c.s lewis wendell  berry and kierkegaard are conspicuously  anti-hive mind  yeah okay well um  there's a lot in that comment that  that's an interesting uh set of  reflections there uh t-man um  or perhaps you pronounce it  that's more sounds more fun  um  you know in some of george rr martin's  stories  it's completely explicit that the  concept is being used to  demolish religion it is being used as  part of a  very harsh  critique of an attack on religion  i do not think you could say that about  um  a song of ice and fire yet it's not  there yet  uh  it's just not i mean it's abs you know  you can you can put together all the  different comments about about religion  in the books  uh but no doubt you know as i say  version zero of the text what what was  happening there where was it coming from  where is it going well again bran  goes to the mysterious woods in the  north discovers this remnant of a more  ancient people whose lives were  intertwined with the the first men who  are very closely parallel to first  nations indigenous people in this kind  of so the last remainder of the  indigenous people the last remember the  so-called children of the forest and  children of the forest itself is also an  allusion to  uh first nations who were referred to  that way in french by french colonists  uh in you know what's now quebec pretty  far north in canada and so on um  [Music]  anyway uh  this i presumed cultural illusions i  assume he is not alluding to the  indigenous people of northern laos which  is also possible um but anyway uh  you know that's a very simple  linear  demonstrative  plot development and then he returns  presumably i mean again that's already  happened in the tv show he returns to in  some sense rule or control  westeros now  you tell me does anyone believe that in  the books it ends with  bran being the king in king's landing  it's i think most people at least as the  books exist now on paper seems wildly  improbable it's possible that was the  idea in version zero was that bran would  triumphantly return  uh again  if it's closely modeled on dune  then that would that would follow the  pattern of dune you know again exile in  the desert  spiritual awakening and then the guy  becomes a sort of great revolutionary  political leader when he returns today  it's this is not impossible that was the  that was the original plan for the book  so that it's an idea that's still  um  you know  that george r martin is still playing  with  but i think most people  anyway today it seems very very hard to  see that the the final conclusion of the  plot is going to be  bran stark king of westeros and indeed  sorry i mean ultimately what what would  that mean  philosophically what would that mean  politically well  again if it's a 100 un-ironic extension  of the same set of tropes that george rr  martin has been obsessed with throughout  his whole career it will just be a  reflection on the superiority of this  hive mind  form of organization that what's really  superior is being able to access the  memories of people from centuries ago  and to have this immortality provided to  you through the merging of individual  consciousness well  okay  it could be that that is where the text  is going and that's where it always  initially was going  if so i mean you know then really you're  in a situation where  um  the  red god  the uh the god of  fire  is fighting against  this  hive-minded god  and you have a situation where one  religion is the true religion and the  other is false you know like globally  for westeros and nsos combined and  that's  the moral of the story is that this is  uh  a combat between a real  monotheistic religion a monotheist  religion as a true theos as a true god  true magical power behind it  um that relor whatever you want to say  the red religion in this fictional world  and then on the other hand you have  whether you want to call it the blue  religion or what have you but the  religion north of the wall  which is based on a true supernatural  hive mind and the thesis is just that  that hive might offers a better future  for humanity and that in the distant  past it offered some kind of lost utopia  some kind of wonderful world for the  children of the forest that was a better  way to  have an intelligent society  it's possible it's just that dumb and  that's possible that's why none of the  other political ideas really make any  sense or are going anywhere now  you know it's possible also  there is  some material about democracy in the  books as they're already extant so the  books that have been published and some  of the isolated chapters of the next  book have been published so i'm treating  all that as what's already known what's  already been been published or  distributed on the internet uh  we do get tyrion and a few other  witnesses  reflecting upon how different the  democracies of the exotic east are from  feudalism in westeros it's possible  instead a more a more sophisticated  future  well again the books may never be  finished it's possible that bran  goes  witnesses the reality of this hive mind  and rejects it  but rejects also  the individualism and selfishness that  makes feudalism so horrible in this  fictional world and then he knows he  then concludes oh there's a middle path  which is democracy that oh what you need  is not a hive mind not a science fiction  i fight i feel like you have to insist  this is a science fiction i might  i don't know as opposed to a  biologically real or  i think so also if you think  if you say hive mind without science  fiction do you guys actually think this  is how bees perceive the world like it's  such a weird choice is this how ants  experience reality no of course not you  know  um  it's possible bran will reject uh you  know the the collocation of of memories  and what have you and will instead say  well what's really important is that we  have this very different kind of uh  cooperation through democracy and  political equality which again  the book does not hold up as a positive  example it shows tyrion laughing at and  scoffing at um flagrantly corrupt  elections all the discussions we get of  democracy in the east and by the way  also these same just as with ancient  greece and ancient rome democracy is  combined with slavery whereas feudalism  excludes slavery so you know uh westeros  does not have democracy but they also  don't have slavery whereas essos  at least some cities and [ __ ] have  both  uh democracy and slavery so you know  again  okay that would be more more  sophisticated is it more plausible does  anyone really think that the ultimate  point of the game of thrones books  is to  recognize the superiority of braavosi  society what westeros needs is to reform  to resemble bravos again the whole  structure of the book especially if  you're aware of version zero it doesn't  make sense that way  you could have a totally different book  that consists of uh bran  going into exile in braavos and deciding  bravo really has a better foreign  political organization and then  returning to westeros uh by the way you  could have that also with um  wow it's been a while seven reading talk  about these books  the last of the targaryens daenerys  daenerys targaryen  daenerys targaryen goes away to live in  essos do you think the the conclusion of  the story is that daenerys brings the  full brutality and barbarism of uh  nomadic you know horse-riding peoples  that she reorganizes uh the society of  west west uh sorry westeros to resemble  the society of vessels you know this is  not plausible again especially if you if  you've read uh uh you know  version zero of of the plot um indeed  inversion zero how much  space was even given to daenerys and her  story how much did she matter how much  would she have been developed if it were  only three volumes long uh following  that original plan i think barely at all  i think there wouldn't be that much that  much space for her to matter as a  character in all her meditations about  slavery and political leadership uh so  and so forth but i think uh  anyway  you know what is the political  philosophy of daenerys targaryen it is  not the political philosophy of george r  martin i mean it's not the point of this  book you know the tv show again  tv show handled this in an incredibly  clumsy and ultimately boring way  but when daenerys returns from sos to  westeros she doesn't have a better idea  of how to organize society she doesn't  have a political agenda her agenda is  revenge  and if you've read the books you know  george rr martin is anti-revenge part of  the whole reason for the southern  conspiracy plot um taking down adorn and  someone is just the critique of revenge  revenge vendettas etc so it can't  possibly be that the books are going to  end with the celebration of revenge but  you know what  democracy barbarity feudalism what  really matters is getting revenge in  enemies  there is no way that's the conclusion  and the point of all these themes and  issues and examples that george r martin  has been has been playing with now you  know it is possible sir but in terms of  the the role daenerys might play at this  moment  religiously who does daenerys work for  now  in the book you know how much philosophy  is there that can be separated from  religion most of the philosophy is  is tight religion well you know the  short answer is nobody she's not working  for the the red god relore she's not  working for the children of the forest  or you know their  mysterious leader with a thousand eyes  and one etc etc you know she's not she  doesn't believe in or support any of the  religions it is it is possible that in  the book unlike the tv show that when  she arrives in  westeros she will just literally destroy  some or all of the religions some of his  anti-religious themes could come out  there well no you know never forget i  know from some of us we've read it such  a long time ago but the initial  introduction of the god relore is in the  context of both burning statues and  burning people of human sacrifice the  brutality and evil of the religion  overlords really shown to us up front  and um  the reason we are given  for opposing stannis which now has  become easier and easier to forget as so  many books have gone by the reason we're  giving  for opposing stannis is that it will it  will just be unspeakable evil will come  from his religious fundamentalism that  his commitment to that religion and what  he will do if he takes over power will  be terrible now the tv show has spoiled  this for us of course but presumably  we're going to be reminded of how evil  stannis really is and how how evil his  religion is and and that agenda when he  sacrifices his own daughter to the gods  this is there's already people already  predicted that in the books just based  on the way it was written uh that it was  implicitly foreshadowed in the style of  writing but of course this actually  happened on the tv show that's a plot  twist uh yet to come  so  you know yes there is a whole there is  in terms of the political philosophy of  the books he's set up quite a number of  religions that he opposes explicitly it  is not possible that the conclusion of  the books the political hypothesis and  conclusion will be you know what people  need  people just need to be conquered by the  iron islands  people just need to convert to the  religion of the iron house that's a good  that's a good religion though  the drowned god that's  there's  you know what people really need to do  is reform westeros to get back to the  old way of the iron islands you know  that's a whole long discourse and  there's a kind of cultural critique and  anthropology there  what he has to say about the the iron  islands and religion and politics in  that in that context having set up those  those abstractions but he's setting them  up like bowling pins to be knocked down  one religion after another in these  books is bad bad bad evil evil evil  wrong wrong wrong  now  basically what i'm saying to you is my  my hope  is that the hive mind in the north that  the the religion that bran represents  will also be in some sense overturned as  bad evil wrong i mean what we've been  told again and again at this point this  this could be a big difference from dune  right  well a big difference from um the  original trilogy of star wars also star  wars if case you didn't know was  influenced by doom it's derivative of  doing to a remarkable extent okay so in  the original star wars if you haven't  seen all the movies and tv shows and  crap that's what  the very very first film the main thing  you're told is oh this is an old ancient  religion that's disappeared and been  forgotten and nobody believes in it  anymore they're just a few people darth  vader is one of them and you know  there's this showdown where darth vader  is facing off against some kind of  military commander or general and it's  obvious most people have nothing but  contempt for the force and for you know  uh the distant memory of the jedi  knights whatever they once were now  later in these  in these films including the so-called  prequels all of this changes and in fact  this religion only disappeared a couple  decades ago well it disappeared  around the time luke was born and luke  is like 16 so like okay so 16 years ago  this really  completely screwed up the continuity and  and that's lost it's not possible for a  mass religion and a whole army and  series of civil wars and things like  that it's not possible for the jedi  knights to be forgotten in 16 years it's  just ridiculous  but anyway in the original film one of  the main things that's stressed is that  this is this ancient doctrine that has  become obscure and forgotten and it's  special but now luke is going to revive  it he's the chosen one who's going to  revive this ancient mysteries okay  that's a trope we've all seen about a  thousand times got it well  george r martin sets you up with exactly  the same pattern or luke skywalker is  this kid in a wheelchair this crippled  boy and it is emphasized again again  right up to the end of the the books as  we don't have them right at the end of  the extent text you know oh there are  fewer and fewer children of the forest  all the time there are fewer and fewer  ravens that are capable of doing this  everything is shrunk these are the last  survivors in the last cave of this  disappearing culture  well  yes it's possible he's going to just do  the luke skywalker plot it's possible  he's going to do the dune  battle for arrakis plot well oh guess  what the the religion of these  indigenous people who have been kind of  ignored and mistreated by the authority  that the peasant indigenous religion of  the remote country said that that's now  going to become the religion of the  empire that would be the dune structure  right  to take the sorry uh the fremen in dune  the indigenous people of the deep  uh  remote areas of the desert and then take  that and take over the the capital and  make it the emperor's ruling culture  okay that's that's possible that's  probably in version zero of the text the  original draft for this to be only three  volumes that's probably exactly what  bran was going to do because you're  going to take this religion from the  cave and bring it to the capital city  and now everyone gets to be ruled by  magical ravens that remember things that  happened a thousand years ago and they  get to put their consciousness into a  hive mind all this [ __ ] great okay so  yeah  it is totally possible  it is also possible that now because the  story has drifted and george martin's  interest has drifted a very long way  away from that it is totally possible  that bran will instead conclude look  this religion has died out for a reason  you know what  human sacrifice in front of a magical  tree  that's something from the past that  should stay in the past it's just not  that great  um it's possible he's going to conclude  you know what what really matters is his  own life and for everybody in society  their own lives here and now and not to  be beholden to a peculiar  species of immortals you know in a cave  somewhere uh not neither do you behold  into the trees nor the ravens nor the  peculiar sort of immortality they  represent that maybe this should be it  should be left behind now look guys i  haven't even mentioned once here the the  so-called the great others  i think nobody predicts maybe george  barbara martin is going to surprise all  maybe the conclusion is that the great  others march all the way south  nobody stops the zombies they completely  conquer everything and that's the end of  civilization they just wipe out westeros  completely ceases to exist after having  been entirely conquered uh by the others  nobody nobody is predicting this um  what will happen with the war with the  great otherwise or what that what that  represents so  i guess i might as well say it any of  you know the books i think will already  feel this and not really needed to be  explained but  the political and philosophical  significance of the great others is of  course that it fails to unite westeros  against a common enemy um  the warring factions the feuds the  different ideologies and so on that they  represent the different notions of  morality and the different religions  they represent they ought to all i mean  hypothetically they ought to all support  stannis they ought to all unite behind  stannis and you know like stannis says  he he uh concludes that uh he doesn't  have to  uh become the king in order to save the  kingdom he has to save the kingdom in  order to become the king they could all  back stannis and say look you know what  what really the the thing that really  matters right now is not the house of  dorne getting revenge for the murder of  uh you know the  former wife of the king and so on you  know there's specific members the royal  family were killed in the  you know a generation earlier  that's not what really matters what  really matters is that dorne  and you know uh  each of the  houses each with their own petty uh  power mongering politics going on that  they set those things aside they set  their religious differences aside that  the iron islands  and the house of the north they all  reconcile the differences and together  fight against the great other a term  that comes straight out of a [ __ ]  anthropology textbook you know  it's uh about as subtle as an elephant  in heat completely obvious the symbolic  significance  and they don't you know and the lack of  union and the continued infighting uh  far beyond the point of the issue of  diminishing returns for the point where  they're they're destroying their own  possible survival and future that's the  political and philosophical significance  there okay but what next you know like  you know that is that's that's a good  point i mean don't get me wrong that's a  that's kind of a great and meaningful  meditation for for humanity but you know  okay what's the conclusion you know  what's it all about uh  look there is no way  that the political and philosophical  conclusion in this book is  jamie lannister has all the answers  you know it has been hinted at again and  again jamie lannister had the option to  take the throne at many different points  and that he still could  you tell me  do you think the actual conclusion story  just like well jamie lannister learned  all the lessons of house lannister he  learned all the lessons from this war  and he's got the correct political  philosophy he knows what's best for the  future of westeros so it's going to be  reconciled the whole thing will be  settled under his rule there's no chance  i mean if jamie lannister ever sits on  the iron throne i think it'll last for  two chapters it'll be two chapters  before someone cuts his head off you  know it's hard to imagine that that  lasting any length of time and it  probably would make some kind of  philosophical or political point it's  possible that's that's gonna happen you  know uh nobody thinks that his sister  cersei lannister is uh yeah that's how  it's gonna end is cersei wins the war  because cersei knows how to rule the  kingdom you know because cersei wants to  impress you know her deceased father  cersei gets her revenge against the male  gender you know uh she she resents that  she wasn't born a boy and she was never  good enough to please her father and the  end of the plot is she's finally  satisfied she went nobody thinks this is  possible and the reason for this is  fundamentally i mean this is implicit in  the first half of the the discussion of  the video you know this is  a book  written  for  political and philosophical purposes  right it's not the case that he is just  writing a story and then happens to be  bolting on political philosophy  afterwards the whole story is structured  about and the reason why it's meaningful  and the reason why these things are  unfolding is a kind of um  political and philosophical hypothesis  so i won't say it again the part of that  political philosophy that's easy to  iterate that's easy to specify is the  critique of religion right okay but  what is the book saying positively about  religion that's very hard to say right  the part of the book that's easy to uh  analyze  specify atom right iterate but it's easy  to deal with is the critique of  feudalism right okay so we don't have to  talk about it we're all sophisticated  people right critique of feelings okay  but what is it saying positively  whether about democracy or about  something better than feudalism what  what does it think about i can't say  it's saying anything positive about  feudalism this is one of the most  rousing condemnations of feudalism of  the last century this is a really  in-depth  passionate condemnation of feudalism and  in many ways a passionate condemnation  of religion too the religion of the dark  ages broadly speaking okay but you don't  think he's condemning feudalism  because he thinks we should go back to  living like the nomadic horse people of  essos do you  that would be an easy novel to write any  of you could write that novel okay the  novel is daenerys targaryen grows up in  this horrible feudal society she's  exiled she runs away to live in the wild  plains with uh you know  much better life enjoyed by nomadic  people living at a lower level of  technology blah blah blah and she learns  oh this is really the life worth living  and then brings it back to westeros and  burns down all the stone houses and  forces people to go back to living as  nomads  that's  that'll be a much easier novel to write  right you have a very simple sense of  good and evil oh so  society living in uh  settled villages towns and cities that's  bad  nomad nomadic warrior  slave trading  you know horse riding you know this kind  of pseudo mongolian uh parallel universe  in in hessos oh and that's good that's  the life that's worth living and then  transpose one of the other obviously  that's not the point you know obviously  you know i don't think daenerys  targaryen represents any kind of  positive fluster or or you know  moralistic reforms  so  withering critique of religion yes  withering critique of feudalism yes  obviously but what is the point  positively what is it that brandon stark  is going to learn  in that cave  that is the conclusion that is the point  of game of thrones of the whole a song  of ice and fire  universe  and by the way this is also why it's  fundamentally really quite meaningless  to go back further in the timeline  there's really nothing interesting in  dealing with the foundation of you know  the house of the dragon or whatever you  want to call it the founding of of house  targaryen because again in terms of  political philosophy what the book is is  dealing with it doesn't have to do with  that they're not it's not really  interested in the justification of a  system of feudalism through the  bloodline of the rulers being linked to  telepathic control of dragons um the  further back you go in the history the  further you go away from  you know this unique  drama that's in the in the song of ice  and fire books um the turning point in  history that this that this is all about  uh  you know it it really i i recognize hbo  was trying to make money by going  further back in the timeline instead of  further ahead and there were proposals  going all the way back to the age of  heroes to some you know go back to kind  of the stone ages in in westeros but  then i mean fundamentally what is the  point you know how how can we have a  book  or a movie or a tv show that's just  glorifying the victory of the dragon  riding people who conquered this society  and created this horrible  feudal system that the books the song of  ice and fire books exist to criticize  excoriate and ultimately overturn like  to show the the badness  it's just i mean  i know it's an overused term it's kind  of tone tone-deaf to engage in a  glorification of house targaryen when  the whole point is  setting them up as the evil that  westeros didn't have any good to  contrast to it you know like the house  targaryen had to fall it had to be torn  down and the whole society created by  hostile grant had to be told torn down  it's completely ridiculous to have a  society based on people believing in the  genetic superiority of albinos  that's what we're talking about right  albinism people born with white hair and  purple eyes they have a genetic  abnormality and everyone's supposed to  worship them well read the actual duncan  egg novels you know read the way that's  depicted that's that society that had to  be torn down that's i mean there's  nothing positive about the the rule of  the targaryens it's depicted in this  really really negative way this really  thorough going critique of again  feudalism and religion so i think the  step uh backward being taken by uh hbo i  i can only i can only see the  disadvantages of it or not and not the  advantages because it's  in as much as you're turning this into a  glorification of a celebration of house  targaryen um  you're taking a meaningful story and  rendering it uh completely meaningless  oh right guys sorry and in terms of the  conclusion of the book  nobody seems to think that the  conclusion of the story is to to  re-establish house targaryen right  like whether or not that's through the  bloodline of jon snow being revealed  nobody thinks oh well  the point is westeros has been messed up  because they have been lacking dragons  and lacking a supposedly genetically  superior  sub-race of humanity of genetically  superior feudal house that is the only  group of people capable of writing the  dragons so the way to solve westeros's  problems is to restore to the throne  someone with that bloodline whether  that's jon snow or not whether that's  daenerys targaryen or not to restore to  the throne people with white hair and  strange eyes who have some kind of  genetic advantage in writing dragons and  then and then problems will be solved  why because you'll go back to completely  hopeless uh despotism  forever and ever you know so i just  mentioned everyone knows there is this  issue of the targaryen bloodline  obviously with jon snow being one of the  main characters so and so forth and no  in this sense nobody cares nobody thinks  that can be the real political and  philosophical significance of the books  right that can't be the uh that can't be  the conclusion that this is uh this is  working its way towards and look again  if it wasn't already implicitly obvious  enough  our understanding  of the political and philosophical  significance of this huge corpus of text  leading up to that conclusion right we  can't really understand any of it until  the end of the story is is shown  and that's also why i think it's so  important to analyze what version zero  of the text would have been what the  text would have been if george r martin  had just written that short three volume  uh version that you know  was was set out the initial proposal to  the to the publisher  i mean  cybas  the literal game of thrones  in the book he didn't even have that  idea until like volume five or six or  something of this series it's not there  in the first book game of thrones all  right  yeah well you know life is like a game  of cybast this goes on and on and on  we have all these discussions about  politics and the nature of different  characters being shown and reflected on  from the way they play cybes right so  you have all this kind of all this  symbolism all these references and  reference right  but we until the the story is done and  it may never be done there is this real  sense in which we can't know what he is  going on about  but again based on the corpus of his  work leading up to this it seems  it seems very difficult to believe  that the conclusion is just going to be  oh well bravo's had it right along  that's the way to organize society or  that any of the city states of of essos  had it right it's certainly not going to  be we have to get back to being ruled by  the bloodline of of ancient valyria so  you know  george r martin has now been you know  deep  he's he's been deeply committed to this  kind of uh this long game of cybes this  long series of reflections and analyses  and and critiques of of politics and and  religion  and again the the negative analytical  element what it is he's against what  he's criticizing what is he's exploring  it's very clear  but uh the extent to which we really  remain in the dark  about the positive conclusion  um  well it's fascinating in a word it's  it's fascinating  and i cringe to think that the  conclusion of this book is ultimately  just going to be the same as a song for  leah  and seven times never kill man because  that's it's very possible it's very  possible that george r martin hasn't  changed and that all he can do in the  end is point the finger and say look um  humanity can't be happy  until it can imitate  a beehive in the you know organization  of its behavior until we have this you  know totally fictional notion of a hive  mind  i'm just going to look at the the  questions here because they did have  some questions and comments coming in  melissa has been uh  melissa has been patiently  sitting through this performance is  there anything you want to ask about and  you want to  anything you want to draw my attention  to  no i just think it's funny  that  when you mentioned the drowned god i was  thinking just that and i had a smile  come to my face because i was thinking  of just the ridiculousness of the  religion within chemotherapy that wasn't  right right so the drowned god though it  really is true to form for martin in  that it's taking some of the fictional  aspects of religion and making them  physically real and even scientifically  real so you know they have a  resurrection experience a life after  death experience where they're briefly  drowned and resuscitated they're given  cpr after drowning and that this is you  know in the cultural context a great  deal is made of it so it's moving beyond  mere baptism where people briefly black  out drowning and then come back from the  dead  and this is at the crux of their  religious experience so i mean that  that's  that's really the way he likes to write  about religion  like is to look at something and say  okay well your religion has resurrection  okay what if there really is  resurrection  um oh okay well your religion promises  immortality of the soul okay well what  if there really is immortality of the  soul and then to  kind of expose it or demonstrate it in a  tragic way  you know so in a song for leah you get  immortality of the soul  your body is also literally consumed  you're eaten alive by a kind of parasite  that's how you achieve this immortality  so you know i mean now again to me i  don't think this is great writing  um but this is something that's been in  science fiction and fantasy uh for a  very long time you know the idea that  you you have to make some kind of  terrible segments now again some of that  i feel that the earlier books are not as  well written as as the later books but  you know  you do get these ideas already even in  uh daenerys targaryen demanding that  this  ritualist save the life of her husband  you know  uh cal drogo the king of the horse lords  everyone say um  you know oh okay well i can do that for  you you know and it is magic it is it is  supernatural you can have immortality  but of his body only you know it's the  immortality of the body not of the soul  and this is contrasted to there are  several ways in which you do have  immortality the soul game of thrones you  can live on you can be immortal  in the mind of a raven flying around a  cave in the arctic circle you know is  that is that the kind of immortal you  want because look i'm just saying if  that were on offer i wouldn't want it  i'm not into it i'm not i'm not buying  if that's your religion i'm not buying  and i'm not going to engage in human  sacrifice or animal sacrifice in front  of a magical tree uh to get it but yeah  that's that's really that's really his  pattern  and um  you know  the idea that  religion  would take away people's extreme sexual  desires or evolved mating instincts and  control overpopulation as a result that  it would kind of discipline and subdue  a population which obviously is a  certain kind of anthropological way of  looking at what religion is in the real  world  uh in seven times never kill man that's  made real it's a go okay so they have  this mystical religion and it actually  takes away their more ape-like instincts  their more mammalian instincts and they  they have this very limited sex drive  and they they mate in this you know  they reproduce in this controlled way  and then when they lose their religion  all of these instincts return and  instead they're having  too many babies and too much violence  and internacion fighting so they recover  these more human and also more mammalian  aspects of their character that their  religion was was taking away so that is  that is very much what he likes to do  again and again and again  but  you know  what is the point  you know look you can ask this this is a  legit question you can ask even of the  books as they already exist so the books  may never be finished  looking at the corpus literature we have  already  for george rr martin in the political  philosophy george r martin what is true  happiness  there are so many things you can look at  and say oh this is not true happiness  this is not your happiness no this is  this is a false  kind of happiness tyrion lannister you  know what money money is not happiness  uh sleeping with prostitutes is not  happiness alcohol is not happiness and  you know again you can also find these  ideas throughout his other writings  his writing prior to uh song by giving  us he's not uh  he's not a hedonist in the sense he  doesn't really believe in many of his  characters sleep around not jamie  lannister interesting i mean jamie  lannister lives this kind of chased  life uh despite despite his deplorable  relationship with his own sister but  anyway you know um otherwise he and he's  not comfortable with his sexuality this  way but you know  what is  happiness in game of thrones from the  very beginning and including in the  dunkin egg novellas happiness is not  serving an oath  happiness is not honor  happiness is not living by a nightly  code right  in a very 1960s way george r martin is  instead saying to you all the time hey  all this stuff about chivalry and  nightly honor and living by an oath and  a code that's just the man  trying to keep you down that's just the  system oppressing us that's throughout  the whole thing right you you see that  there's this sense of uh rebellion  against  honor and nobility and and all those  tropes i mean i don't just mean that  he's subverting them in some literary  sense he's really telling you  this is bad and evil and wrong this is  not true happiness but what is right  okay you could really rapidly go through  all the religions  the religion of law pardon me the  religion of relore is not offering you  true happiness even though it can offer  you it does offer you prognostication  about the future  this is one of the most desirable things  for people in the whole history that  wanting to know the future  wanting to control the weather i mean  there are certain things that people  have for millennia  hoped to find in religion well the  religion of relore actually offers you  many things i mean magically in this  book oh okay so if you join this  religion and if you do this kind of  thing you can stare into the fire and  you can actually get guidance and advice  and visions of the future and so on you  know uh and by the way some people take  the view  that the religion of war hasn't revealed  the things that will actually happen in  the future that that instead it's only  revealing  like what's currently unfolding kind of  thing um to carry the book well  in case you forget there was definite  foreknowledge that if um  tyrion lannister got on a particular  boat  this is when he's a prisoner that there  would be a shipwreck  and that he would instead end up with  daenerys targaryen so  that is a program that's pronounced  prognostication for the future for  something incredibly improbable and  something that nobody had control over  an uncontrolled shipwreck and it  happened so again he's taking something  that's normally fictional in religion or  is even a swindle in religion in the  real world if someone promises you they  can show you what's going to happen in  the future okay well let's make that  real within this fantasy science fiction  world  and it's tragic and it's horrible and it  reveals to you the darkness of human  nature right like oh like wouldn't it be  a wonderful world if this thing we dream  of or wish foreign religion were real no  no no it wouldn't be wonderful here's  what human nature is really like that's  what he looks to do again and again you  know so so likewise i mean someone could  hypothesize you could write a very  boring novel where the religion of the  iron islands just satisfies human nature  and that's it you know how about by the  way just the religion of uh  sorry in the southeast of westeros where  they still fight where they still decide  um who's guilty who's innocent because  they believe in the religion of the  seven so much that they just fight duels  of honor sorry so there's throughout  westeros but the conservative parts of  westeros still do this um uh in the veil  that's what i was thinking so in the  veil they still believe in this right oh  well tyrion lannister is on trial so is  that good  is it good to have people believe that a  sword fight reveals the will of the gods  is that good or evil you know obviously  it is it isn't fair to say that george  is satirizing these things it's not a  satire of religion he's saying oh okay  let let me show you what life is like in  a society where people really believe in  fate where people really believe that  minor and trivial things you can't  control or who wins a sword fight and  something that that is the fate of the  gods or reveals oh and guess what here's  what human nature is like  you know so i and again even in that  case was tyrion lannister in a stern  minnesota guilty does anyone believe you  know even within this fictional world  that who wins a sword fight really does  reveal guilt or innocence uh in a trial  um  yeah and the the next uh humanitarian  does the same trick again as you know he  has  another uh trial by combat and what was  the conclusion of that trial and and by  the way the murder mystery who actually  the different murder mysteries and who's  responsible for what some of them also  remain still undisclosed and unknown who  actually killed joffrey baratheon you  know justice for joffrey  [Laughter]  well  if you believe in the trial by combat  then you have your answer right if you  believe you believe in the gods and  maybe that is the answer maybe that's  the the plot twist is that you know so  no i just say that's that's very much  his his pattern with that  um  you know many people  many youtubers even they try to  interpret the books as being anti-war  i think that's not true i mean i think  that's actually a real misunderstanding  it's not anti-war i think like all of us  george rr martin is opposed to fighting  meaningless wars for for meaningless  reasons okay we had samuel tarly uh  mentioned here so someone said samuel  charlie for king at least he reads books  but that's not the point of his like so  look if george r martin if the political  philosophy if you really were a pacifist  that could be the conclusion it could be  you know what samwell tarly was rejected  by his own father his own father we  eventually find out was is a really  great military leader it's many books  later that we get his father fleshed out  as a character a bit by the way but you  guys some people may read the books they  might not even connect them so many  pages later but samuel tarley's father  does come up again um  thousands of pages later whatever many  many hundreds of pages there  um okay so his father was a great  military leader his father rejected him  for being a coward but in fact samwell  tarly is the best possible political  leader that a different author could  have written that book we say no you  know who's really you know the better  way to organize society is to have  people like samuel tarly as our leaders  that is not george martin's perspective  i mean  i would wager money maybe george would  would then do it intentionally just to  take my money away from me but like  there is no chance that the point  inclusion of the book is simultaneously  is right and among other things  ultimately coward or not samuel tarly  has to fight against the great other  which is that ultimately there are some  things worth fighting for or worth  fighting about that that that runs  through all all the books  even uh the mercenary who worked for  um  tyrion lannister  and then he ends up eventually parting  ways with him uh he has a simple name  like grim but i'm forgetting it now what  is that  braun braun  so you know braun the mercenary you know  to me it's actually very touching and  moving that he ends up in this situation  where he's in this small castle and may  have to fight for his life against  tyrion's sister you know what as she  temporarily takes over power and you  know you know you have these really  deadly serious  struggles for survival within politics  in terms of civil war and then also with  one kingdom against another i don't get  the sense at all that george r martin is  anti-war in that sense he doesn't it's  not that he thinks all war is is bad or  fruitless or that sam sanchez is good  right but again that could any of you  you could write that book instead  someone else could write a book that's  sincerely anti-war and where also by the  way i don't even think what he's saying  about uh essos is that like the problem  with those people is that they love war  or something you know the critique of  essos is not a critique of of war the  whole the books as a whole they contain  a great deal of reflection on on man's  inhumanity man for sure  but and yet they are not anti-war and by  the way the books as we currently have  them one of the last things sam tarley  says i know it's not the absolute last  thing but you know um toward the end of  the text of god of course someone asks  him are you still a coward and he  proudly says no i've fought a great  other i've done this have done that that  he regards himself he no longer is a  coward that he's gotten over it that  he's accepted the role of of violence  and more so inasmuch as sam tarly um is  a mouthpiece for the philosophy of  george r martin he's someone who started  off as a fat book reading nerd and a  coward but who who did indeed uh man up  as they say who did indeed come to  embrace uh the notion of himself as a  more active and you know muscular  character in the the abstract sense of  of muscular yeah sort of and by the way  that may be what's coming next in his  plot i think it's quite likely that in  the books as in the tv show he's going  to reject becoming a maester he's going  to say screw this i've got to go back  and fight a war i've it's handled very  poorly in the tv show but presumably  that is what's going to happen he's not  going to do five years of training he's  going to briefly talk to the people at  the citadel and say well look there's a  war to fight i'm going to go back and  fight it but yeah what did you say  i found your discussion of the mind  science fiction yes  my thesis is  that that is the center of the story  that that is what the books are  organized around and version zero of the  text i think that's clear on so but i  may be wrong i think in versions of this  case  we'll see what happens with the final  text  yeah i just thought  you remember arya stark's involvement  with the many face gods  yes  which hasn't been mentioned in this  episode  there's so much to talk about  right  right  yes  all right  right  no no no so look look it's a great  example and extends this discussion and  it's especially interesting to talk  about politically okay the many face god  of essos so  everyone assumes this is just a shaggy  dog story that this isn't the main plot  and i think that's probably right but if  i'm wrong it's even more interesting  right like  the story of bran and his voyage to the  north and whatever his spiritual  discovery is and then his return  that is the central story of these books  that's not my choice it's not my  preference  probably be more interesting if arya  stark is the main character and is the  central story that way if her voyage to  braavos and her return if that's the  world-changing spiritual discovery right  but clearly it's not again if i were  writing the book maybe maybe i would  make arya stark that kind of world  transforming epoch defining hero  character  but that's not the book george is  writing  um  okay the religion of the many-faced god  the death cult of braavos  it's not a hive mind it's a religion we  are explicitly told created by a slave  rebellion ah so this is political right  so you had these slaves rebelling  against the slave masters this was the  oppressed against the oppressor  and then after that brief initial period  um it's remained tolerated within  bravosi society that anyone can take  revenge on anyone and again george r  martin has anti-revenge comes up it's  explicitly articulated throughout the  book but that anyone can can take  revenge on anyone just by basically  asking to do so at this temple and let's  be clear there's no trial there's no  jury there's no presentation of evidence  so what do you think happens in the real  world the tv show completely dropped the  ball on this i mean if george r martin  has a heart attack tomorrow we'll never  hear but obviously in the book this is  not being praised and held up to you as  an excellent idea hey what do you think  would happen if we opened a temple of  the many face god in in las vegas nevada  next week how many people playing cards  are commission i'm certain that guy  cheated me in poker and we'll go to the  temple and  you know like human nature is dark how  many people are going to get revenge and  how many other people for  for what for what petty reasons or just  based on a lie based on a misperception  or misconception so so far in the book  none of that has been dealt with none  none  there's been there has been no  skepticism or scrutiny  um on the  morality  of the temple the miniface got and now  this is partly because we're seeing it  from the perspective of a child who  unlike in the tv show she has a very  good quality of life there the quality  of food and clothing and so on she has  she's actually taken care of her weather  and she's very happy about being at the  temple this tv show made it look like a  rather dreary it made it look like  slavery uh her status but that's not the  case in the book at all  and she's in the process of learning  this new language and doing all these  different assignments under underassumed  identities right  yeah so  you know the religion of the many-faced  god  um  it's not a high of mind right  so  instead  you have the dead becoming a mask  for the living  so that the living can take out revenge  can carry out vendettas against other  living people yeah so it's a purely  negative purely subtractive i mean you  could say it's the antithesis of  immortality it's you know it's it's  about mortality it's about killing  people but yeah in this weird way the  same ideas are there and as you know  it's explicitly stated by arya that when  she's wearing the mask of this other  person that she takes on  so i'm afraid this is actually she takes  on their memories i don't know but she  takes on some of their character and  feelings like there's some echo of the  person that's with her but i i don't  i don't think they i don't think it  exposes they they get the memories  someone in the audience can can uh but  in any case it's not it's not like  brand's experience and it's also not  like uh warging with the uh with the  wolves so if there is some mention of of  getting little glimpses of memories i  think there is maybe i think there is  maybe i think there's a brief statement  that when she has this mask on she has  some access to the memories or feelings  of the the girl  uh it might be in there in that in that  same way yeah but look you know still  like a totally different book and again  we don't know what the significance of  bran's journey his brand's spiritual  transformation in the north is but he's  going to return to the south and then  transform the south  um nobody thinks that arya stark is  going to bravos and it's going to bring  back  the religion of the many face god this  death call and that that's the better  way to organize society or the better  way to live the better religion for all  of us to uh to believe in i mean it  seems obviously just to be a kind of um  frankly a form of organized crime that's  tolerated in braavos  for historical reasons and has you know  religion you know draped on it rather  loosely and you know and rather  unjustifiably you know one might say  it's a place where people commit suicide  and people take revenge on others  as you know it's an ugly horrible aspect  of their  of their culture i mean can anyone say  bravos would be a worse place if they  got rid of this society of assassins who  pretentiously you know kind of present  themselves as uh  as as priests among us you know it's  just it's just ridiculous but you know  and also by the way i mean i'm not in  favor of suicide too i mean the people  who come and commit suicide because  they're brokenhearted or something you  know that's uh that's another aspect of  that at that time so i'd say that that's  just just as impossible it is to believe  that george r martin is cheerleading for  the religion of the iron islands which  some people would ted kaczynski would be  pro iron islands ted kaczynski would be  pro  uh you know yeah pro cal drogo yeah  right everyone said pro uh horse riding  nomad that is not george rr martin's  political philosophy he is also not in  favor of the temple to manifest god it's  completely ridiculous to read the text  as if as if that's the hypothesis he's  counter posing to everything he's  criticizing in feudalism which  i can see what is saying that it's not  like the same idea as um  the story about the leah sorry yeah yeah  a song for leo right so it's not seeing  it in an optimistic way right um so  that's that is kind of interesting to me  that uh in the game of thrones series he  hasn't seen it  as transformative in the same way  his earlier story is this high point  but um yeah i know i and to me i just  did find interesting news  it's funny to say this but i found it  interesting that you say that you are  not interested in this idea of mine yes  you don't think this is  something worth  yeah  literature because  it's it's as  you know you could determine yourself in  biological violence that uh you find it  this as uninteresting as  eating and digesting somebody's food  yeah  i just thought for somebody who is  interested in reading history that you  might find this idea inspiring that  you'd be able to  take on people's memories  yeah i i you know i think it's less  meaningful than wearing someone else's  clothes you know i mean i think that you  you it's it's hard to do it's hard to  get to that point of nihilism where you  realize no even my memories and even my  emotions are really just implements that  i use and that are discarded  that i discard and that at some point  you know i may be the one discarded and  then you know my memories and my  emotions go along with me you know i i  mean  this has come up under many different  headings in our relationship but we  don't talk about it in terms of acting  or theater or performance you know for  the camera but like you know i think it  is a real turning point where you just  admit to yourself that for example  crying  is a signal we have to show others how  we feel  you know and by the way i don't  necessarily mean manipulating or  misleading people you know you weep to  tell someone that you're in distress to  show someone um that you're suffering  and what it is you're concerned about  weeping is a signal it's a form of  communication that's that's all it is  you know  and um you know it's obviously  especially as a child it's very easy to  feel that emotions emotional experiences  and so on are more more real than  reality your feelings are more real than  the things you feel them about or  feeling in response to but you know no  you know weeping and anger and all that  these are you know  these are tools you know these these are  kinds of of implements and they're  they're never going to be as meaningful  as the purpose they're put to as why  you're  you're using the tool you know it's a  way of doing it and again this stuff i  had to think about when i was involved  in the theater when i was involved in  acting and so i'm going to think about  you know when you're talking about uh  you know culturally um the whole concept  of antidepressant medication and so on  so you know the the medicalization and  reification of feelings that goes on  philosophically culturally and and  politically in our times and you know no  i mean no no you know like there is a  real sense in which you know we clothe  ourselves with sadness we clothe  ourselves with the motion we exhibit  emotion in the same way that we wear  clothes is a signal to other people in  the same way that clothes may conceal  more than they reveal about you you know  um that you know that this is all it is  i mean to profoundly deal with the  shallowness  of the figments of our imagination  whether those are emotions feelings  memories  um or what have you to really accept  that  um  i think i think it's a hard thing to do  i think it's an inevitable part of  of growing up um  and you know again  the  the deeper lesson is you know if my  grandfather had something meaningful to  share with me  about what happened in world war ii  it's not enough for him to feel it  it's not enough for him to remember it  it's not enough for him to break down  weeping either you know what i mean he  actually has to put in a level of effort  tantamount to creating a work of art you  know to to share that with me  and by the way guys i'm not saying this  to  insult anyone  you may know some people  who  tell the same stories again and again  like you've known them for many years  they told you that story when you were  younger than you heard maybe you saw  them telling someone else the same story  10 years later that is a kind of art i  mean it's the storytellers are in a time  before youtube and a time before  filmmaking was financially viable for  normal people it used to cost a lot of  money used to have a film  um you know um  there was a sense in which i mean of  course you could also write a song about  your experience or whatever  people used to more than i do today  prepare  and perform a story about something that  happened and it might be a story that's  amusing and it might be a story that's  heartbreaking and there were people who  measured out their whole lives in a  series of these stories they did share  with their grandchildren they really put  that effort but that is an art you know  that's not a thought it's not a feeling  it's not an emotion it's not a merging  of consciousness or anything else  and  you know when you really know people and  you can cross-examine the stories  they're telling you can often point out  well yeah but you know you're lying  about or concealing this this other  thing that's there you know you're  telling the story in a certain way again  as with the clothes we wear they conceal  more than they reveal now of course this  is not to dismiss the thing so uh  both of my grandfathers were involved in  world war ii in very different ways one  of them was out doing combat the other  was on a military base and um  neither of them ever told me anything  meaningful about their spiritual world  or two and i was like  my grandfather  yeah never told anything  but but  but  sorry i'm just sorry to catch you but  they may not have had anything  meaningful to tell  you know like from their perspective you  know um  war is waiting you know like you know  even on the combat lines like yeah i  spent a lot of time standing around  holding a cup of coffee  waiting for orders and then i got the  orders and i got my motorcycle and went  over to the like you know  what what is it that's meaningful to  tell so you know again this is a false  thing to presume that there was a great  story to tell there  but you know to take to take that  experience and make it into a story  if you guys some for some people this  will be the first video ever so on my  channel i had all kinds of experiences  in cambodia and laos and thailand okay  and  you know  i've had many people say to me including  my own mother i tell her some anecdotes  about my experiences out there because  we didn't talk for like 10 years i was  alienated from my parents  the alienation was mutual  um you know so when i tell her anecdotes  put time off she always immediately says  oh you have to write a memoir you have  to write an autobiography oh you have to  make a film about this or something and  you know well you could you know yeah  yeah these things are meaningful but you  know to take that story and fashion it  and communicate to make it meaningful  for an audience you know that is an art  you know and and the  it's not a memory you're sharing you  know it's not  you know now again we're talking so far  about things that have some kind of very  obvious um  meaning because they're political i mean  that's the reality why is your  grandfather's experience of world war ii  with significant you know obviously  political and and historical  significance but you know um the average  self-pitying middle-aged male  reflecting on  relationships that didn't work out loves  loves that were lost sexual encounters  and experiences  that were dissatisfactory or didn't  didn't end the way they want to  you know uh your your grandparents never  told you about that either you know mine  didn't tell me but you know and you know  uh  yeah are we missing out and again not  that that can't be made into a work of  art but what a huge challenge to take  what it's not so much that memory is  meaningless it's that it is by nature  self-serving you know um  you know we study history not for what  it subtracts from the past but for what  it adds to the present you know memory  as such is just self-serving but to turn  it into something meaningful for someone  else that is an art  great question the audience quote any  thoughts on star trek  that'd be a whole different live stream  i think yeah  um i think overall star trek shows the  tragedy of trying to have any kind of  any kind of uh  meaningful project  um that's just  run by a heartless corporation where  there's no no  no author no artist or no team of  authors artists at the center who define  it you know uh  you know what would game of thrones be  without george r martin what if came  what if george amanda died 10 years ago  you know what i mean  i mean star trek isn't even like that  there's no book it's working from but  the centerlessness of star trek and the  aimlessness of star trek you know very  much results from the structure of  authorship  and so to give them credit you might not  know this about star trek but for most  of the history of the tv show they were  open to anyone sending in a spec script  so anyone like you some guy living in  los angeles could write his idea for a  script send it in and gene roddenberry  would look at it so like star trek the  next generation the jean-luc picard era  and you had you had a shot of getting  getting your show made you could just  come up with so anyone  could contribute i mean this is before  the internet so there was there was some  barriers he had to pay for postage you  know we had actually printed it on paper  and sent it in and people did there were  people who got episodes made out of  their ideas and that's the same way the  books were written too you know so these  these novels so i i'm only answering  this because it certainly is a contrast  to just how  centrally organized the game of thrones  literature is that at this point  absolutely everything is the product of  of just one man you know it's literature  it's  entirely the result of one man's genius  and sometimes his lack of genes  so it's all thanks to him and it also  can all be uh  be blamed  so yeah we we have some comments you're  agreeing with or reflecting further on  some things that have come up in the  discussion already uh so look kiss says  quote on a superficial level i suspect  that maybe george r martin projects a  lot of himself onto bran as the  as he is the frustrated hive mind of the  song of ice and fire in a sense  a great question from matthew ackee  quote reading is definitely better than  video games  for various reasons however how can we  justify reading fiction instead of  philosophy non-fiction etc  don't  i mean matthew anything in your life  that requires justification just don't  justify it that's really all i have to  say with that i just don't  um  i've said this before one of the reasons  why i'm very bad at spelling the names  of the game of thrones characters like  you know daenerys targaryen is that the  vast majority of this i heard as uh  books on tape and it was actually  originally it was while packing and  unpacking later i listened to this stuff  while working out at the gym but my  first encounter was literature you'd be  surprised how much time you spend  packing up suitcases and furniture and  stuff like that but um  you know it competed with listening to  podcasts for me in that way uh but you  know obviously i could have been  listening to something else bucket but  if you think you have to justify it  don't  you know i think it's it's that simple  you know people  as soon as you recognize that you're  justifying drinking alcohol don't just  don't don't justify it and don't drink  alcohol you know so now if you've got  any if you've got any problem that way  and if you've got if you've got  something better to read we have such a  stack of books there no you know and  then that's all also much earlier in  this broadcast i said look i don't even  know how i'm going to feel when the next  book gets published  take a look at my reading list i i have  better things to do but really you know  i  you know five years ago i was so  positively motivated for this but now  you know i don't know how i'm going to  feel  uh if or when the next book comes out  you know  and obviously the some of the spin-off  books that george george himself has  written was just this collective shrug  of the shoulders  uh from even the most die hand  department from even the most die hard  uh you know  game of thrones fans  huh so valor in the in the audience says  that he's afraid that uh george might be  a little bit  heinlein in his political view so i do  actually know heinlein enough to know  what you're getting at  um  i would uh the real comparison highline  would be about sexual politics and the  family and so on  um that that would be interesting  someone could write an essay on that  uh  george  to what extent that highline uh  influenced george r.r martin as  interesting question so i continue the  comment here quote he views elective  systems as superior  but he's american and it's common  especially for many of his era to be  roman fetishes so okay that's melissa  and i we've been reading a lot of stuff  from ancient rome in this last year uh  primary source stuff you know not modern  books about ancient rome but texts  translated from latin into english  directly  i i don't see it in songwriting there's  i don't see any  admiration for ancient rome in it  i'm just i'm just being honest with you  um  [Music]  i don't have a lot more to say about  that so that's energy you have two  suggestions here one is about the  connection to heinlein  and  yeah  you know  that probably some of the darker  elements of uh incest and and  uh the nature of the family whatever you  could you can make an argument there  but  yeah no um  someone else will have to write an essay  about that whether it's what heinlein  says about democracy what he says about  the military what he says about war  or  um ancient rome but no i don't i really  don't see george or martin having any  significant interest in or sympathy for  in jerome  okay so question from lakis  and fair enough question quote why would  any philosophy found in a song of ice  and fire etc need to provide true  happiness  so i think you're you're  misunderstanding the point  but i'll continue your quote quote i  mean even george r martin said the  ethnic would be better sweet  okay um  so  it's not the case  that a philosophy needs to be about  happiness  this is not what i said and that's not  what i was insinuating or suggesting  indirectly  the point is you can quite quickly  come to the point  of what someone's philosophy is  by narrowing down what do they say in  this corpus of literature about true  happiness so i'll give you two examples  from myself one  my own book  no more manifestos as you can even guess  from the title there's a lot of  criticism of politics there's a lot of  negative things said about politics some  about religion too right okay but if you  say look positively what is this guy  saying about the meaning of life  what and also positively what is he  saying about  politics  a very rapid way to say okay we got all  these pages and how many hundreds of  pages it is  let's rifle to it what is he saying  positively what happens what is this  positive example happiness that will  normally indicate to you what this  person has to say about  about philosophy and indeed about  political philosophy that this person  says do you look true so so someone  writes a book i mean a very conventional  right-wing conservative may write a long  book or series of books with a lot of  some right-wing conservative writes a  book criticizing left-wing people but  when i ask you okay what is the model of  happiness in this book  say it's ben shapiro or something ben  shapiro's model of happiness is  a heterosexual man married to a  heterosexual woman raising children and  doing these same [ __ ] religious  rituals forever this is very simple  that's happiness for him white picket  fence in the suburbs  religion religious heterosexual  he has a very normal boring very narrow  boring idea of happiness that is his  idea of human happiness um some some  other writer  feels writes a book where they say look  the only way to be happy is to go out  and really take risks really be a  creative artist really be this kind of  reckless figure pushing your own  boundaries getting out of your own  comfort zone  different authors will have different  ideas of happiness that will very  rapidly bring you to an understanding of  what their philosophy is if you're  looking through a corpus of text so i've  said this about my own book  which very few of you have read some of  you have read it  say okay well you can i mean it's not a  summary of the book it's sort of like a  fish hook you can put out there and then  bring you to the the heart of the matter  rapidly you could an intelligent person  could do an analysis in the book okay  isil mazzard says all this stuff  critique of politics critique of history  critique of religion under many  different things okay but you know when  he talks about happiness when he talks  about what it is to be alive and what  what is the meaningful life which comes  with many different parts of the book  you can bring that together and that  really shows you  what this guy's philosophy is all about  this is what he thinks a meaningful life  is this is what he thinks it means to be  happy as an individual and for the  organization of society as well what  that requires the organization to side  now i can also say that about the corpus  of literature  on this youtube channel  i know 3 000 videos  thousands  hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of  monologues have been uploaded channel  and if someone says you will look  isil mazzard about lucielle you have  this huge sprawling corpus of literature  produced over many years talking about  many different political issues ethical  issues philosophical issues okay what's  it all about what is it  you could indeed attempt to summarize it  come to the heart of the matter by  saying okay well you know what if you  see what  this guy mastered says about happiness  about leading a meaningful what that  that's a trail of breadcrumbs that takes  you it takes you every point so yes i do  think that mode of analysis  with the corpus of work of george rr  martin it's telling it's revelatory it  reveals exactly what i want to talk  about  in this video now  even though it is bittersweet to use  george r martin's favorite term if you  read his story a song for elia it is i  believe it has been published as a book  it's a stand-alone book it's not that  long a book  if you read a song for liar it very  clearly shows you this is happiness this  isn't  all right it very clearly shows you  people think  sexual gratification is happiness and  they're wrong  people think  they can overcome loneliness and  isolation in life and the feeling that  nobody else really understands them  through a close sexual relationship with  their husband wife and they're wrong  right  like it's it's real it's it's an  incredibly demonstrative transparent  note now it's also tragic it's also  bittersweet because the alternative it  presents you with this true unity  achieved through the hive mind it's  horrible in some obvious ways like you  are devoured alive by a parasite you  know that's it but that is  that is the the model of happiness um  you know  shown to you in that book it tells you  right away philosophically and  politically you know what what his point  is  now  again sorry so it was useful here it's  very easily used negatively when talking  about the corpus literature for game of  thrones and by the way sorry another  i've already made a video talking about  look at  his book seven times never kill man  uh seven times never kill man  very clearly the judgments about  happiness it is not telling you that  organized religion will lead to true  happiness it is really clearly saying to  you organized religion is just the  system trying to keep you down it's just  the man oppressing you you might think  this is liberating you you might think  this is doing these pauses but actually  religion is oppressive it's completely  clear what is happiness and what is not  in that sorry also so you know  does anyone think that what he is  presenting as the religion of the seven  is the way to be happy that this is the  way to be happy as an individual person  or in the organization society  some other author would have written a  much simpler book  that contrasts the catholic society of  the religion of the seven to the horse  lords of essos the horse riding nomads  and where it's just very simple this is  not true happiness this is you know like  in order to be happy what you need to do  is get back to living as a lawless  nomad where life is in the words of  hobbes nasty british and short people  have sword fights people die of  infections people die of curable  diseases the rate of uh  you know maternal  mortality and childbirth is very high  there's no medicine there's no  technology but that's true there were  plenty of authors who would write that  book that's the contrast okay here's the  the urban society the dark ages then  here's and one  is true human happiness and one isn't  that is not the contrast george r martin  is providing you with and of course this  becomes even more ridiculous if you try  to say well the life on the iron islands  is really happy or life in dorne is  happy nobody reads these books and  thinks oh he's showing us that dorne is  the superior society you know it's it's  not though so it is a useful um optic it  is a useful analytical way of viewing  a corpus of text and look i think in  some cases that analysis results in you  condemning the author and really  revealing what a terrible person the  author is napoleon bonaparte  what is napoleon bonaparte's idea of  happiness for the individual and for  society as a whole  adolf hitler  what is the religious idea of happiness  i mean really you can you can look at  other historical figures they all wrote  books in particular examples  but there are historical figures you can  analyze in this way and their idea of  happiness personal individual happiness  and then how that's compatible with or  incompatible with larger and larger  units of social organizations tell tell  a um intelligent really quickly this  relates to my own notion of myself as an  author and as a as a filmmaker and what  have you i once sat down with my aunt  judy  so now now some of you are going to be  able to google her and find the person  driver i once sat down with my aunt judy  this was in it this was in an ex  vegetarian restaurant some of you in  toronto will know which astro restaurant  is the restaurant that used to be  vegetarian and they actually had a sign  on the window at that time saying sorry  comma we have chicken  that went from being a vegetarian to  being vegetarian but also offering  chicken i think eventually they just  became a total meat serving restaurant  they became vegetarian with a chicken  object because they weren't making  enough money so i remember on the site  the sign on the restaurant said sorry  kama we have chicken  um  so there's man judy and she said to me  i'm sorry some of you heard the senator  before she said to me  we were talking about the fact that the  film industry was thriving in toronto at  that time which it was and she says yes  but what is the point of making all  these movies if they're just crap like  what's the point of making them if if  they're just videos and i i laughed out  loud at her and i really it was a  sincere laugh it wasn't uh it wasn't a  contrived oh  no i really i really thought this was uh  hilarious and i asked her what is the  point of drinking water  what is the point of breathing air  why do you think people want to eat food  i didn't say that across the street from  there was a bookstore a bookstore i've  taken a melissa to a secondhand used  bookstore say you stand in front of a  shelf full of books in a bookstore like  that what percentage of these books are  garbage or meaningless or whatever you  want to put you know like you're looking  at like the novel section or something  but any second even the non-fiction  section is it 99 is it 99.9  but the the minority of us who want to  do something meaningful the minority of  us who want to make a really meaningful  film it's possible for us to do so  because of that 99  they create and sustain the whole  industry all these people are fed and  clothed and have apartments and breathe  air and drink water  thanks to the 99 of films that are  meaningless then once in a while someone  gets to make one film that's medieval  now i really see it positive that way  like the publishing industry and book  publishing well gee i sure am glad there  are 99 of books that are garbage because  i get to publish my one book as a result  you know like the whole  like  what i'm doing has a like  my meaningful life has a parasitic  relationship to the meaningless life led  by 90 of people or 99 people or whatever  it may be whatever that percentage may  be and you know i mean this in relation  to the creative arts filmmaking so on  and so forth you know so  this is a contrast because i view that  positively i feel gratitude and i was  gonna be [ __ ] up like i feel grateful  toward the publishing industry  because once in a while someone gets to  publish a really important book and once  in a while it might be me you know but  even if i'm just a reader i'm so  grateful for these books i get to read  that are good but i realized they would  not have been published that that  publishing wouldn't have been possible  if it wasn't for the 99 of books that i  disregard as many so this is true  publishing this is true of the  the film industry you know so on and so  forth and her view of it was instead of  zero sum you know her her view of it  instead was fundamentally communist she  basically felt that the government  should snuff out the freedom of the  press and the film industry and control  these things so there were only you know  films being made that are approved by  joseph stalin or what have you as being  of a public benefit educational benefit  or morally uplifting purpose purposes  some of this that's the kind of society  she wants to live she's a [ __ ]  goddess and not a moderate communist let  me just add  you know that's her that's her view of  society and she thinks that by reducing  the number of meaningless films you're  going to increase the number of  meaningful films by reducing the number  of meaningless books you're going to  increase the number of me and no my view  is the opposite more garbage more  mainstream crap more you know the  flourishing  of the meaningless side of the industry  will let that small minority flourish  also  you know we the authors who want to do  something really meaningful we're going  to get to exist parasitically on the  back of this great blue whale of an  industry crashing through the waves  that's you know  producing this kind of mainstream crap  and feeding everybody involved providing  them with food and shelter that  i can't do you know i can't keep all the  makeup artists in los angeles employed  but when i do make my one film i expect  to be able to just call in this makeup  artist call in all these technical  people people doing the lighting well  they're being employed making all this  other crap  so i have a very positive view that way  i you know this is also why i'm not an  anti-natalist i'm not against life  itself you know i'm very i enjoy life  i'm very kind of in this sense pro-life  word that is more than me but you know  there are a lot of people have a  fundamentally you know negative view of  life well so just so when you see that  when you think about you know what is  happiness what is happiness for the  individual what is happiness to the  larger unit of society right and then  do you see one as antithetical to the  other one is inimical to the other do  you see the individual  as trying to steal something away from  the larger society or is contributing to  the legislation and you know grateful  tellers  these are big profound differences and  that shows in people's writing it shows  in their writing when they're writing  fiction it shows in the writing when  they're when they're writing non-fiction  there are a lot of people are  fundamentally bitter self-hating  anti-social people and they write books  where their notion of happiness  shows that in their in their books you  know it show that  in their books and their films you know  okay well this is what this guy thinks  happiness is uh look voltaire  you know what does voltaire ultimately  think happiness is so candide by  voltaire the conclusion of the book and  the positive model of happiness is of  running away to live with your  girlfriend or wife whatever you want to  say is to run away to a cottage and live  in this kind of uh  isolation and his uh you know his turn  of phrase that's become famous is just  to cultivate your own garden is to cut  yourself off from society cut yourself  off from religion go and get a cottage  in the countryside and just grow your  own vegetables that's his model of of  happiness and it's also by the way  explicit to stop chasing  beautiful women and just stay with the  same one woman even though she's ugly  the ugly and stupid actually in the book  it's explicit but it doesn't matter just  settle down with one woman just take it  that's explicit in candide it's a long  enough book to have more than one that  you should just live in a cottage with  your one wife or girlfriend even though  she's uh she's ugly and stupid and  you're not in love with her anymore and  just tend your own garden to not make  the world a better place  that is at least in in candidate at  least in in that work that is voltaire's  notion of happiness and look at how he  lived his own life and look at what he  did in politics in his own lifestyle and  it's that's what he did you know he  tried to attend his own garden he got  himself off from the struggle and so on  you know i mean so you know that really  tells you something and and then when  you know that now if you go and read  candida a second time because you only  find that the conclusion you will see i  mean frankly you learn something about  his fundamental shallowness that shows  throughout the rest of his book and the  rest of what he has to say about uh  about both religion and happiness  sorry about both religion and politics  you'll see something like that  so yeah you can tell a lot about a  person you can tell a lot about a writer  you can tell a lot about a political  leader through the interrogation of  their concept of happiness it's a useful  analytical  structure  um  and you know sometimes of course all it  reveals is bad writing is that there's  really nothing that that makes sense  here  and you know i mean the character of  batman  what makes batman happy i mean this  collapses it falls apart no matter what  analysis you bring to it um does batman  actually enjoy  punching people like is this you know is  he that darker character that he's on  this kind of sadistic cruel  this is a sadistic cruel revenge fantasy  is that his character i mean there have  been so many different interpretations  of batman sometimes he is portrayed that  way somebody's portrayed as an insane  you know revenge seeking kind of uh  sociopath son of sometimes you know the  original name of the comic book was  detective comics sometimes he's a  detective in a cape where he's this very  calm he's a sherlock holmes-like figure  so you know i don't go go on and on  about this but yes it is it is useful in  terms of what is the happiness  what is the philosophy and what is the  political philosophy of this book as a  whole and and of this author as a person  i think it's it's a really uh  really useful optic to bring to these  things  so look by the way sorry it's not the  topic of this  i agree little water says batman is an  awful story  um  look  what was karl marx's idea of happiness  happiness to the personal individual and  happiness for society as a whole  this is not going to reveal to you what  a great person karl marx was or what a  great author he was or what a great  political philosophy he has i think it  reveals how shallow and limited and  stupid karl marx's whole literary  political and economic project is now at  the opposite extreme  if you look at most of the kind of  right-wing libertarian authors  normally it's quite transparent it's  nakedly put out there right for their  idea of happiness you know as they say  in america life liberty and the pursuit  of happiness what happiness means to  them it's very clearly iterated to you  up front and it's often  embarrassingly horrifyingly shallow  shallow and self-centered and what have  you so  yes this can be applied constructively  and destructively to uh different  authors uh revealing different uh  different i think important aspects of  political philosophy  okay so um  i have a moment for this i'm gonna wrap  this up in just a few minutes guys  coming up to the two hour mark if you  guys have a second to hit the thumbs up  button i'd appreciate it it'll just help  more people find the broadcast whether  today tomorrow or 10 years from now  wicked energy comments quote doesn't  listening to popular media make it  easier to relate to other people  sometimes isn't it alienating to not be  familiar with popular films music etc  okay so great  great questions  comment have you ever been to iran  if you lived in iran for five years  would you listen to  popular music there would you watch the  popular films made by iranian  filmmakers how about north korea  i remember laughing at someone when they  suggested to me when i was living in  laos laos was at that time a communist  dictatorship by the way that i would  start getting into local  music and film  music and tv shows like soap operas they  had  no  [Laughter]  you know i learned a lot living in laos  but no  i don't relate to or appreciate their  pop music  i don't like to appreciate their cinema  and if i lived in iran living around  could be very rewarding for me i mean  the critique politically of what's wrong  with iranian society and the religion  and so i can imagine many ways which  they'd be very stimulating  no  i'm not going to sympathize with they're  not going to be interested in their  their pop culture right so you know now  notice i'm not i'm not giving you an  answer no  i'm not saying you know there's nothing  significant or meaningful about popular  culture or mainstream i'm not saying  that  um  take yourself out of your comfort zone  think about some other cultures and  think about what it really says about  you what it really means  if you are  immersed in  the mainstream cinema of north korea of  iran of saudi arabia of communist china  of any of these these places  well  have you considered that i might be  more alienated from  canadian society than you are from  iranian society or north korean society  so  you ask isn't it alienating not to be  familiar with what's going on in pop  culture  isn't it alienating for me to be plunged  into that culture just as it would be  alienating for you and  iran or north korea  so valor says coming back to a point  discussed quite some time ago he didn't  pull the roman thing completely out of  nowhere if you type in grrm rome you'll  see two posts obsessing over the  fictionalization of rome's uh late  republic era  yeah well  you know um  so i have this city villa i'm not i i  didn't ridicule your point i didn't say  that's ridiculous or stupid i just sat  there and reflected honestly that i i  don't see any interest in rome in in the  song of ice and fire corpus of  literature as it now exists  it's possible the next book will come  out and it's all going to be  related to um the legacy of rome  uh  i don't see that anywhere in a song of  ice and fire  the  serious interest in wrong  i also don't see it anywhere in the  thousand worlds books  right  so  again i'm not ridiculing you  but i feel that you will look in vain  for that now maybe  you know  you know maybe you're right maybe that's  exactly what's coming next i mean look  look that is  coming back to karl popper's uh  philosophy  it would certainly be a daring  prediction to say that rome hasn't been  talked about yet because that will be  the ideal of the conclusion book so so  valor let's take your hypothesis and  let's make it really sexy let's make it  really provocative  okay  what if the argument of the next book of  game of thrones or maybe the next book  after that but of the books to come  is that the real solution to the riddle  is republicanism and it's republicanism  in a capital r sense  and he plunges into  what made rome great what made the roman  empire work like maybe critique of rome  and celebration melissa is laughing off  camera she's been reading this stuff  we've been reading appian and salis and  some other  great ancient roman uh historians and  authors time paul today and there are a  lot of bad things about insurance okay  casey neistat it's not all good news  about rome uh it didn't just end badly  you know um  you know the brothers grace the mean  light motif  of the next volume of game of thrones is  the brothers grak eye and maybe the next  volume of game of thrones is  a  carefully concealed critique of the  constitution of the united states of  america for not being true to the legacy  of the roman public maybe that is the  intellectual conclusion like i'm not i'm  not saying this to ridiculous valor  it's possible you know it's possible i  am just saying up to this point if he  has that interest he has suppressed it  incredibly  effectively he has completely concealed  that from the audience if that's where  this is going by contrast  you know the story about the squishers  in there did you get that from the box  you know um you know  his interest in  uh lovecraft's ideas as they come up in  the squishers and the the the oily black  rocks and the foundation of the temple  there are so many interests you have  that are that are not concealed part of  him wants to be writing something that's  more like lovecraft's cosmology not even  any specific story about lovecraft but  this kind of you know schlock horror  rising from the depths of the ocean  thing that comes up again and again so  if he's really interested in rome he is  surprised and the the model of the roman  republic or  uh he has suppressed that far far more  effectively than he suppressed there's  numerous other thematic interests and  creative impulses which are frankly you  know pouring out all over the page  palmell as part of why the books go on  for so many uh so many hundreds of pages  yeah  so another real down to earth comment  from little water quote  i lost hope  in the next book to come out his latest  books were already getting stale well  so okay this is a good place to end so a  final comment from uh do you want to  give me a little kiss says quote  my problem is that the hive mind cannot  be a model for human happiness  because it can never be a real human  experience so it doesn't tell me much  about george r martin's model of  happiness if it it even exists so this i  totally disagree with you  um  the catholic idea of heaven can never  exist the catholic idea of the great  chain of being can never exist the  catholic idea of people infallibility  can never exist all of these impossible  things nevertheless were a model for  society they totally restructured and  reformed and reordered society and  produced the society of the dark ages  right intangible impossible ideas are  what political and social organization  are all about they're what political  philosophy is all about plato's idea of  the republic is a totally impossible  plan for society laughably  impossible and by the way aristotle  himself laughed at it like within his  own time it was laughed at okay guess  what that can profoundly transform and  reorganize society and you can point to  certain examples in history where it did  to some extent where people tried to  live up to uh plato's notion of the  republic one way or another where it did  where it did influence them now i could  go on and on with different cultural  examples you know around the world uh  communism is a little bit too broad  because there are many crazy ideas in  the communism the philosophy of mao  zedong  specifically it's completely impossible  it's completely ridiculous i don't want  to digress into here iterating although  but this is like uh  hot ice this is like a square circle  this is wooden iron and this is totally  ridiculously impossible okay impossible  intangible ideals things that people  have never experienced things that  people can barely think through in a  coherent way  those do  become  for society they do transform society  and i i think you could offer a really  sincere critique of my philosophy which  is pro-democracy i'm very much in favor  of of direct democracy to the greatest  extent you know kind of practicable and  i'm a critic critic of my own views by  the way i'm not a naive democrat but um  you know my arguments in favor of  democracy you could say the exact same  thing you could say  direct democracy has never existed  nobody has ever experienced it how can  direct democracy be a model for our  society and politics and  it can't i mean  i think i think when it comes to these  things the more intangible the better um  you know it's precisely through the  understanding of the intangible perfect  model of democracy that you can work out  all the details for the imperfect tragic  deeply flawed democracy that you're  actually going to get  in the same way that that catholic set  of ideals produced and justified a  catholic society through the dark ages  that in some ways resembled its ideals  and in some ways was a parody of those  ideals it was it was a terrible you know  tragic let down so i just say i had a  confrontation with one of my professors  once that left him very stunned and  impressed at my profundity and this was  in my very first year at university and  this was in my first few months at  university so i was a very young  stupid man frankly young and ignorant  and stupid anyway um the particular  professor uh identified as an anarchist  but he was a very  erudite bookish  sort of anarchist he wasn't quite the  stereotypical normal anarchist  and um  he was talking about idealism both in  philosophy and politics and he said look  you know  uh i guess i could speak the first  person he says look you know i'm opposed  to  this idea of perfection i'm opposed to  this idea that we need anything perfect  that we need anything ideal and this  this was his example that he just i  don't know if he's he could possibly  said it every year for 20 years teaching  the same course i don't know if he used  to many times or made it with a spot  it's not that sophisticated example so  you might have just made it he said i  think that a group of imperfect men  can come together with imperfect pieces  of wood and imperfect hammers and  imperfect  nails and they can build a boat  and it's an imperfect boat but there's  just no need to have any kind of ideal  have any kind of perfection any kind of  transcendental perfect notion for people  to come together and build a boat and  then by the same token there's no need  for any kind of ideal or perfect notion  to build a society to build a you know  there's no need for political ideals or  a notion of whether that's a perfect  marxist society or a perfect democracy  or  or what have you and i put up my stack  my hand and said  what about the blueprint  and i think he said also that none of  these things can be perfect so i'm now  here i'm embellishing what he said quite  a bit i guess but um you know  the the boat can't be perfect and the  piece of wood each individual piece of  wood can't be worked there's no perfect  bar okay  what about the blueprint  right there's a sense in which the blue  blueprint  can be perfect  and the sense in which it  must be perfect  and if it's not when you put the boat in  the water  we're all going to die  and he really stood there and he put his  hands on his chin  oh  that the plan is for and i said yeah  that you have imperfect men with  imperfect tools and imperfect pieces of  wood but either they're using a  blueprint that's perfect it's not none  of you will ever touch the blueprints  none of you okay there's a sense of what  you will none of you will touch the  ideal ship the notion of perfection  described by the blueprint you can't  touch an idea you can't touch an ideal  you'll never ride in a perfect ship but  yes these intangible abstract idealized  notions guide our actions as imperfect  people in coming together whether we be  in our hundreds in our thousands or in  our millions to you know build the ship  that  hopefully when the rain falls will  keep us all afloat